documentation/source/GettingStarted.rst, before:

.. include global.rst

Getting Started
***************

We'll first install SpherePy and then try some simple examples.

Note that SpherePy is build on top of NumPy. The installation procedures below 
will automatically install NumPy.

Plotting routines within SpherePy use matplotlib. This package is not automatically
installed and must be installed separately from SpherePy.


Install
=======

* Setting up :ref:`ref-pip`
* Install :ref:`ref-linux`
* Install :ref:`ref-windows`
* Install :ref:`ref-source`
* :ref:`ref-uninstall`

.. _ref-pip:

pip
---
Whether you are on Linux, OS X, or Windows, make sure you have the latest
version of `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/installing.html>`_ installed 
(https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/installing.html).
 
**Upgrading**:

On Linux or OS X::

    $ pip install -U pip

On Windows::

    $ python -m pip install -U pip



.. _ref-linux:

SpherePy on Linux
-----------------

SpherePy requires C extensions to be compiled. On Ubuntu, you will have to do the following::

    $ sudo apt-get install build-essentials python-dev

Building C extensions also requires NumPy to be installed::

    $ sudo pip install numpy

You may then install SpherePy::

    $ sudo pip install spherepy

You will most likely also want matplotlib::

    $ sudo pip install matplotlib
	
	
	
	
.. _ref-windows:

SpherePy on Windows
-------------------

SpherePy requires NumPy, which contains a lot of binaries. There are a lot of ways to get 
NumPy installed on Windows, but one of the easiest ways is to install a Python distribution
such as `Anaconda <http://continuum.io/downloads>`_. 

Now we should be able to install SpherePy::	

    $ pip install spherepy
	
We can also install matplotlib to plot things::

    $ sudo pip install matplotlib


.. _ref-source:

From Source Code
----------------

The source code is hosted at GitHub. For the latest (but not necessarily most 
stable) version of the code use git::

    $ git clone https://github.com/rdireen/spherepy.git

You can visit the project directly at https://github.com/rdireen/spherepy.
Fork my code there and start helping out; I don't really know what I'm doing.

To install from source, you will need tools for building the python C extensions. 
There is a version of the code completely implemented in Python, but I couldn't get
the low level routines to run fast. To compile C extensions on 
Ubuntu you'll need build-essentials and python-dev::

    $ apt-get install build-essentials python-dev

.. note::
    I've been able to develop these extensions on Windows as well by using 
    the compiler `here <http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=44266>`_.

Building C extensions also requires NumPy to be installed::

    $ pip install numpy

You should now be able to install the code by entering the directory containing the 
*setup.py* script and typing::

    $ python setup.py install

To see if things are working, start python and type::

    >>> import spherepy



To plot stuff you'll need matplotlib::

    $ pip install matplotlib

	
.. _ref-uninstall:

Uninstall
---------

If you don't like it, you can cleanly remove SpherePy from your machine with::

    $ pip uninstall spherepy



Quick Example
-------------

Plotting individual scalar spherical harmonics::

    >>> import spherepy as sp
    >>> C = sp.zeros_coefs(5,5)
    >>> C[2,0] = 1
    >>> p = sp.ispht(C, 50, 50)
    >>> sp.plot_sphere_mag(p)

As a result you should see a plot of the spherical function :math:`Y_{2,0}(\theta, \phi)`:

.. figure::  images/sph2_0p.png 
   :width: 600px

Commit message:

Adding __future__ so I can make sure things are a little more solid for all platforms.

documentation/source/GettingStarted.rst, after:

.. include global.rst

Getting Started
***************

Works on Python 2.7, 3.3, and 3.4 under Linux and Windows (not sure about OS X).



Install
=======

* Setting up :ref:`ref-pip`
* Install :ref:`ref-linux`
* Install :ref:`ref-windows`
* Install :ref:`ref-source`
* :ref:`ref-uninstall`

.. _ref-pip:

pip
---
Whether you are on Linux, OS X, or Windows, make sure you have the latest
version of `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/installing.html>`_ installed 
(https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/installing.html).
 
**Upgrading**:

On Linux or OS X::

    $ pip install -U pip

On Windows::

    $ python -m pip install -U pip



.. _ref-linux:

SpherePy on Linux
-----------------

SpherePy requires C extensions to be compiled. On Ubuntu, you will have to do the following::

    $ sudo apt-get install build-essentials python-dev

Building C extensions also requires NumPy to be installed::

    $ sudo pip install numpy

You may then install SpherePy::

    $ sudo pip install spherepy

You will most likely also want matplotlib::

    $ sudo pip install matplotlib
	
	
	
	
.. _ref-windows:

SpherePy on Windows
-------------------

SpherePy requires NumPy, which contains a lot of binaries. There are a lot of ways to get 
NumPy installed on Windows, but one of the easiest ways is to install a Python distribution
such as `Anaconda <http://continuum.io/downloads>`_. 

Now we should be able to install SpherePy::	

    $ pip install spherepy
	
We can also install matplotlib to plot things::

    $ sudo pip install matplotlib


.. _ref-source:

From Source Code
----------------

The source code is hosted at GitHub. For the latest (but not necessarily most 
stable) version of the code use git::

    $ git clone https://github.com/rdireen/spherepy.git

You can visit the project directly at https://github.com/rdireen/spherepy.
Fork my code there and start helping out; I don't really know what I'm doing.

To install from source, you will need tools for building the python C extensions. 
There is a version of the code completely implemented in Python, but I couldn't get
the low level routines to run fast. To compile C extensions on 
Ubuntu you'll need build-essentials and python-dev::

    $ apt-get install build-essentials python-dev

.. note::
    I've been able to develop these extensions on Windows as well by using 
    the compiler `here <http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=44266>`_.

Building C extensions also requires NumPy to be installed::

    $ pip install numpy

You should now be able to install the code by entering the directory containing the 
*setup.py* script and typing::

    $ python setup.py install

To see if things are working, start python and type::

    >>> import spherepy



To plot stuff you'll need matplotlib::

    $ pip install matplotlib

	
.. _ref-uninstall:

Uninstall
---------

If you don't like it, you can cleanly remove SpherePy from your machine with::

    $ pip uninstall spherepy



Quick Example
=============

Plotting individual scalar spherical harmonics::

    >>> import spherepy as sp
    >>> C = sp.zeros_coefs(5,5)
    >>> C[2,0] = 1
    >>> p = sp.ispht(C, 50, 50)
    >>> sp.plot_sphere_mag(p)

As a result you should see a plot of the spherical function :math:`Y_{2,0}(\theta, \phi)`:

.. figure::  images/sph2_0p.png 
   :width: 600px
